>> Steve Kinney: Has a button with
the text copied from clipboard.
All right, this is an interesting one.
Now this is more like what we think about
a traditional selenium test, right?
Like go ahead and
start like querying the dom, and
see if elements that I expect
to be there are there.
It's cool, so let's unskip this one first.
All right, so we'll say cons buttonText,
I'll say, await app,
let's give myself space there, app.client.
So there is a getText method
that will take a selector.
>> Steve Kinney: This
one's copy-from-clipboad,
it should be the idea of that there.
And we can say, return.
>> Steve Kinney: Assert.equal
>> Steve Kinney: ButtonText.
>> Steve Kinney: Copy from Clipboard.
Let's take it for a spin.
>> Steve Kinney: Two.
>> Steve Kinney: Does not have
the text Copy from Clipboard.
Interesting.
>> Steve Kinney: Kind of curious,
>> Steve Kinney: Copy
from Clipboard is the button ID.
>> Steve Kinney: GetSelectedText,
auto complete error.
>> Steve Kinney: Nope.
>> Steve Kinney: Do an npm test there
>> Steve Kinney: We
did get to see what a test
failure was at least.
All right, cool, the test passed, awesome.
All right,
let's see what our next test is.
Should not have any clippings
when the application starts up.
Interesting, so that makes senses, right?
Basically, we can go ahead and
query, effectively a dom query for
get me all of the clippings and make sure
that that's got a length of zero, right?
And then ideally, we'll copy one from
the clipboard, so on and so forth, and
see that change.
That makes sense.
Let's do that, all right.
I'll just say await and it'll wait for
a promise to resolve even if I
don't necessarily need it yet.
So I'll say await
app.client.waitUntilWindowLoaded();.
Listen, let's wait until
everything's loaded,
because there won't be anything
on the page until then.
And then we'll say const clippings
>> Steve Kinney: =
>> Steve Kinney: App.client,
now there isn't a, like getText was
a helper method, which will go ahead,
query the dom for that node and
get me the text of that node.
But this case I want to like,
go get a collection of nodes,
effectively a document.querySelectorAll.
And I want to go ahead and
count how many there are.
So this might remind you
a little bit of jQuery.
It's to get all of them,
we do $$ to get one, it's $.
And we can say,
>> Steve Kinney: Which
is what it was named in this
version of the application.
So go ahead and
query the dom for all of them.
And then return,
>> Steve Kinney: Assert.equal.
>> Steve Kinney: Clippings.length
is equal to 0.
>> Steve Kinney: And
let's not skip that test, yep, thank you.
>> Steve Kinney: Cool, we'll run it.
>> Steve Kinney: We don't have
to develop the tools open.
We've got the right buttons.
But no clippings when the application
starts up, all right.
Our next one is, it should have one
clipping when the copy from clipboard
button has been pressed that
makes total sense, right?
Yeah?
>> Speaker 2: So is solineum or something
here hooked in to sequel light to make
sure we're always starting with a fresh
>> Steve Kinney: This one is just
a regular down version of it.
So you might wanna use a test database and
have transactions in there and
stuff along those lines, right?
Or have a version where you just bypass
the database in testing because you can
use a process that node, right?
And have a different code pass,
something along those lines, right?
Same way, like in a web app you
might have a testing database.
But yeah, totally makes sense.
This is just basically taking the dom for
a spin.
So it's like the earlier version
before we did the native modules.
So it should have one clipping
when the clipboard is pressed.
Any of that you would do kind of either
at the beginning of the test file or
you can do that before each or after each.
You can kinda prepare the database as it
would need to be, roll it back, so on and
so forth.
In fact, one thing I should
probably do after each test is
I should set the clipboard and clear,
I should store what previously was in the
clipboard in a variable and replace it.
Like right now, when we start copying and
pasting, that's gonna change
my system clipboard right now.
All right, so you can do that stuff in the
before H and after H of set everything up,
clean up after yourself,
so on and so forth.
>> Steve Kinney: Cool,
you should have a clipping when the copy
from clipboard button is pressed.
All right, so
this is gonna be very similar.
What I'm gonna do is I'm
gonna copy most of this test.
We'll wait for it.
And what we'll do first is we'll say,
await app.client.click,
and that will actually getText
that'll take a selector.
And so
we'll say copy-from-clipboard right,
that was the one that we
got the text from earlier.
Here we'll actually just click it.
Then we'll go ahead,
query the dom and count them,
and now we're expecting it to be 1.
>> Steve Kinney: All right,
let's take it for a spin.
>> Steve Kinney: I'm not super worried
about those times cuz we're building
an application up.
All right,
>> Steve Kinney: Let's go ahead and
take that for one more spin.
>> Steve Kinney: All right,
now we need to remove a clipping.
We gotta make sure
the right text is in there.
And then we have to make sure the actual
write to text actually works correctly.
Cool, so we're moving to clipping,
this should be somewhat similar.
>> Steve Kinney: So
we'll successfully move the clipping,
in this case
>> Steve Kinney: We need to go ahead and
put a clip in there and
then we need to remove it.
Now you might abstract some of that out.
>> Steve Kinney: Wait until window loaded.
>> Steve Kinney: Cool.
>> Steve Kinney: We'll go ahead and
we'll click,
>> Steve Kinney: Copy-from-clipboard and
then we'll, now you remember
we had to hover over that one.
So this case we can kind of move
our cursor over to the actual
list item itself.
So clippings-list-item.
Click
remove-clipping.
All right, so then how many do we expect?
We're back to really expecting 0,
so we can just grab this.
We added one, then we moved to it and
we removed it.
>> Steve Kinney: We can go ahead and
take it for a spin.
>> Steve Kinney: Cool,
you see that deprecation warning there.
So moveTo is deprecated, but
there's also no replacement for it yet.
[LAUGH] So that's a thing,
there's an open issue on the,
that's a web driver deprecation warning,
not a selenium one and
the issue is still currently open, and
there is not actually a replacement.
And so
there is this big discussion of like,
why don't you remove the deprecation
warning if there's not a replacement yet?
Again, we can actually,
if that really bothers you,
we can actually go up to,
I tend not to do this, but
if we're gonna look at this this
many times in the near future.
>> Steve Kinney: Turn that off.
The easiest way to deal with
problems is to make them go away.
All right,
should have the correct text in there.
So what we should do in this case is we
should set the text using electron's APIs.
Then go ahead hit copy-from-clipboard and
make sure that the text that we
set onto the clipboard is in fact
the text that ended up on the screen.
All right, so let's try that out.
>> Steve Kinney: We'll wait until
the window loaded, just as we did before.
>> Steve Kinney: And we'll go ahead and
we'll write some text to the clipboard.
>> Steve Kinney: Cool, now we'll take the
copy from clipboard that we did before,
grab that.
>> Steve Kinney: And let's go ahead and
let's figure out what's
in that dom element.
So we saw that get text earlier,
we can do that again.
ClippingText equals await
app.client.getText,
in this case, we're gonna grab
the very first .clipping-text'.
>> Steve Kinney: Cool,
let's give it a shot,
I didn't forget to skip it, that's great.
>> Steve Kinney: No.
>> Steve Kinney: Yeah, that matters.
>> Steve Kinney: You gotta put
the same thing in both places.
I'm gonna work under the impression
that that will solve that one.
And if it doesn't, we'll round back to it
rather than run through all of them again.
All right,
this one's a little trickier now.
Should write the text of
the clipping to the clipboard.
So there's probably a bunch of ways
you can think about doing this.
Here's what I'm gonna do,
is I'm gonna wait for it to load,
I'm gonna write some text in there,
right, I'm going to add it.
I'm going to then put something
totally different on the clipboard.
I'm gonna click copy from clipboard and
hope that the original text is
back on there again, right?
So ideally, we have something in
the clipboard, we make the clipping.
We put something else in the clipboard,
we hit the copy to clipboard or
the write text to clipboard button, and
then we should have that
original text back on there.
All right, so let's go ahead and we can
grab really these first few right here.
All right, and
you can break it to a function.
I actually like my test to
be super specific and so
I don't have to like go find out what
this function does personally, but
we're all different people.
And then lets go ahead and
let put something,
something totally different.
Cool, and then we're gonna do await
app.client.click at copy-clipping,
the clipping button that we made,
which will write it back to
the clipboard and we'll grab this.
>> Steve Kinney: And hopefully those
last two test should now pass.
>> Steve Kinney: So we can see we
can get pretty powerful here, right?
We can, like, take the application out,
we can kick the tires on it in
a lot of different ways, right?
Would I get this granular for everything?
Maybe not.
Maybe that's where some unit
tests come in.
But I think it demonstrates
the idea that like spinning.
Getting this set up,
especially cuz it's not super easy for
a web application either, right?
Getting this set up is
pretty straightforward.
And yeah, this is a simple application,
but we did write a pretty good
test coverage for this application
relatively quickly, right?
And so, what we'll do next is we'll
transition into our next thing which is
what happens if you still mess up, right?
And shift something out there like
how do you collect crash reports?